In this game, you will control a white blood cell. Your goal is to travel around the human body while fighting off attacks from enemy germs. If you allow a germ to hit you or get past you, you will be asked a question regarding the Immune System. Hopefully by the end of your time with this game, you will learn and appreciate how the body defends itself from microscopic danger!
Your cell looks like this:
To move your cell, you will be utilizing the keys on your keyboard. To move RIGHT, use the 'D' key. To move LEFT, use the 'A' key. To shoot bullets at enemies, use the 'SPACEBAR' key. Tapping the SPACEBAR multiple times will generate multiple bullets.
When you are asked a question, you will have an unlimited amount of time to answer it. You will only have one chance to answer the questions, so be careful! You will be prompted with a question every time you allow an enemy to pass you or get hit an enemy. Getting ten mistakes ends the game. Remember, your objective is to protect the body from any harm. Someone is relying on you, so don't let them down. Good luck!
The body you are occupying is being inhabited by several types of pesky viruses and germs. In order to eliminate them effectively, you must know their behaviors and functions.
Oops! It looks like an enemy got the best of you. Click the button below to generate a random question, and answer it to continue playing. Good luck!
Congenital cytomegalovirus, or CMV, is a common congenital (present at birth) infection. CMV is in the family of viruses that include herpes simplex and varicella-zoster (chicken pox) viruses. Symptoms may include fever, sore throat, fatigue, and swollen glands.
Coronaviruses infect humans and a variety of animals. Most human coronaviruses cause upper respiratory tract infections and cause a significant percentage of colds. Coronavirus infections occur in winter and early spring.
Adenovirus typically causes respiratory illness, although it can also cause illness like conjunctivitis (eye infection), diarrhea (especially in babies), or rashes. It often causes respiratory illness in children. Symptoms can range from cold-like symptoms to pneumonia and bronchitis. At-risk audiences are especially susceptible to contracting adenovirus.
The Immune System is the body's natural defense against microscopic invaders. It attacks organisms such as bacteria, microbes, viruses, toxins and parasites that would love to spread disease and illness. The Immune System is vital in keeping you happy and healthy.
The Immune System is made up of a network of cells, tissues, and organs that work together to protect the body. The cells involved are white blood cells, or leukocytes, which come in two basic types that combine to seek out and destroy disease-causing organisms or substances.
Leukocytes are produced or stored in many locations in the body, including the thymus, spleen, and bone marrow. For this reason, they're called the lymphoid organs. There are also clumps of lymphoid tissue throughout the body, primarily as lymph nodes, that house the leukocytes.
The leukocytes circulate through the body between the organs and nodes via lymphatic vessels and blood vessels. In this way, the immune system works in a coordinated manner to monitor the body for germs or substances that might cause problems.
Although each type of lymphocyte fights infection differently, the goal of protecting the body from infection remains the same. B cells produce specific antibodies to infectious microorganisms, while T cells kill infectious microorganisms by killing the body cells that are affected.
Antibiotics can be used to treat bacterial infections. However, antibiotics are ineffective in treating illnesses caused by viruses. In addition, antibiotics treat specific bacteria. Overuse or misuse of antibiotics can lead to drug-resistant bacteria. It is important that antibiotics are taken properly and for the duration of the prescription. If antibiotics are stopped early, the bacteria may develop a resistance to the antibiotics and the infection may reoccur.
You've lost the game! Your failure to eliminate your enemy has led to the death of your host. Enemy germs and bacteria are infecting the body with deadly disease and illness' as we speak. Try to play again, and maybe this time luck will be on your side!